---
title: About SolarNetwork Foundation
date: 2017-11-08
publishdate: 2017-11-08
---
Back in 2008, two girls were playing at the Tole Street playground in Ponsonby, Auckland. Their dads looked on as the girls climbed the jungle gym, swung on the monkey bars and slid down the slides. After a bit the dads got to chatting, and it turned out they had some things in common. Both were U.S. expats living in New Zealand and both had a strong interest in using technology for environmental purposes. Matt was an enterprise developer with a keen interest in environmental issues. John had just started a masters programme at the University of Auckland school of Electrical and Computer Engineering focused on solar power data management. The idea of a solid, shared public infrastructure that used the internet to bridge renewable energy data stream, regardless of the hardware being used to produce the renewable energy, started to swirl in their minds. 

The two gathered some 80 Watt solar panels, two different brands of charge controllers, some deep-cycle batteries, miniature PCs, and some RS-232 cables, and climbed their roofs to install the gear. A new online repository held the first code to acquire, persist and centralise the storage of up to the minute, raw solar data. These were called SolarNodes (as per graph theory) and the repository was called SolarNet.  Since then, the software has grown to support a variety of solar inverters, charge controllers, industrial switches, PLCS, weather and spot-price web services. SolarNetwork has been used by schools, large corporates, governments in the Pacific, solar integrators and and app developers to produce dashboards and apps to display and control dynamic energy flows. As an innovation platform, the SolarNetwork platform has been highlighted by awards and invitations to conferences and brainstorming sessions across the world from the Asian Developement Bank to the White House.

SolarNetwork Foundation commenced in 2017 to serve as a curator of the powerful codebase that has been accumulating with the SolarNetwork platform since 2008. Our mission is to help illustrate solutions and encourage new ideas on energy management with this open-source toolchain, and celebrate the innovation that is appearing from the community of developers needing to do things with energy data that proprietary silos one way or another prevent them from doing.

Matt Magoffin ...

John Gorman is an solar energy consultant in Auckland, New Zealand with a interest in energy data, databases and open-source software. As a New Yorker with a background of being involved in software startups, John took an interest in how open-source software could assist non-profit organisations. He is continually inspired by the potential of information and renewable energy to improve our experience of the natural world.
