---
title: "Go Solar"
date: 2017-11-11T08:48:37+13:00
draft: true
draft: true
weight: 200
brief: "Should I get solar panels? If so, how?"
toc: true
menu:
  main:
      parent: "use-cases"
key: go-solar
---
{{% section  title="Be your own power station" style="default" lead="It's not always about money" %}}
The promise of putting solar PV on your roof to lower your energy bill is a seductive one.  With a minimum of fuss, a solar PV array can quickly be installed on your roof and start pumping clean energy into your building, potentially offsetting your power bill for years to come. 
{{% /section %}}
{{% section  title="Will my power bill go down?" style="primary" %}}
Because solar PV only generates power during the day, the impact it has on your power bill will depend on how much power you use during the day. If you generally use electricity all day, then a basic solar PV system can make a big impact on your power bill. If you are primarily away during the day, however, much of the power generated by the solar array will be exported to the grid. Your local electricity retailer will have to agree to buy that exported energy, so the impact it has on your power bill depends on the price they are willing to pay you for that power.

Today, electric transporation is becoming widespread and economically viable. That means that some of the time, you are going to be charging your electric car while it is parked in your garage or driveway. Displacing petrol or diesel fuel with solar power generated right form your roof is possibly one of the best investments you could make.  While we don't know what the price of fossil fuels will be in the future, we can expect it could rise. But even today, the ROI of a solar array once you have an EV makes a lot of sense.
{{% /section %}}
{{% section  title="Watch this space" style="secondary" %}}
Get ready for the future where solar PV really makes sense for everyone.  Home and building automation, making switching deciisons based on energy forecasts, time-of-use (TOU) metering and demand response is all coming - especially as the demands of electric vehicles begin to impact the grid.  Be prepared and have your energy dataset all organised and analysed for when that future gets here.
{{% /section %}}
